# Quote Poster Repository (fall 2021)

This quote poster was created as an assignment for an Integrating Writing and Design course. The background image is from Unsplash and free to use without attribution. The design is based on the Paula Scher quote, “It’s through mistakes that you actually can grow. You have to get bad in order to get good.” The following commentary is pulled from this poster's design gloss written for the course's final portfolio submission:

"The quote poster assignment asked us to create a poster design based on a meaningful quote, to explore typography’s ability to add visual meaning reflective of the words. I opted for a Paula Scher quote that I find encouraging anytime I am in the highly imperfect play phases of an initial draft. I wanted to make the quote poster for people like myself who are learning design and who often get paralyzed by the need to create something perfect (instead of allowing themselves to create without that impossible requirement of perfection). 

I picked a photo of steps, as I felt it was an identifiable symbol for growth and upward progress. For the text, the repeated pattern of incrementally increasing or decreasing weights of the typeface is a nod to Scher’s branding work for the Public Theater.

In revision, I experimented with a handful of new photos to be the poster base, but none felt like as good a fit as the steps, so I returned to that draft to clean it up. I immediately removed the sneakers I had at the bottom of the steps. They looked too obviously Photoshopped, and more importantly, their meaning was not easy to discern. It was not obvious why the feet were there, which distracted from the typography. Removing the sneakers also left room for the text to be more chaotic at specific moments. Once again, I had a message implying the need for a moment of mess, but my design had clean lines. I broke the lines into individual letters, so I could make the words “you have to get bad” look like they had fallen into a heap.

I also played with the size of each letter in “grow” to make the word grow incrementally, as well as increase in weight. For “mistake”, I didn’t want to misspell it and create a misquote, so I opted for a loud typographic mistake of mismatching fonts. Once I did that, I saw the opportunity to carry this mistake typeface across to the word “bad” and the quotation marks, to create subtle repetition. I felt that it helped make clear I was being intentional about my typographic joke, rather than it being an actual mistake. I doubled down on this by pulling a cool blue tone from the cement steps to create a slightly off coloring that highlighted these inconsistencies throughout the quote.

Scaling back on the imagery allowed me to amp up the typography of this poster, which ultimately aligned more closely with the intentions of the assignment."
